decoy traffic design (#47)
minvws/nl-covid19-notification-app-coordination: architecture/traffic-analysis-mitigation-with-decoys.md

This scenario is unlikely, but it is possible. The risk that this scenario occurs and an observer thus can detect a real key upload, has to be accepted.

## Random simulated TEK upload

In terms of decoy traffic volume, we will generate about 20 times the expected genuine TEK upload traffic. This is a number that we expect will hide the genuine traffic well, and at the same time does not burden the back end servers too much.

Let us calculate how much this 20x decoy traffic will be on average.

The daily infection numbers of the pandemic over the course of March to June 2020 is shown in the following graph (retrieved 22 Jun 2020 from [https://www.rivm.nl/coronavirus-covid-19/grafieken](https://www.rivm.nl/coronavirus-covid-19/grafieken)).

![Graph Dutch daily infection numbers march-june 2020](images/image_0.png)

So for the calculation of the required decoy traffic volume let us take a number of daily infections of 1000. 

And let us assume (optimistically) that half of these infected persons use the app and are willing to do the key upload. That would mean 500 genuine uploads per day. And that would mean 20x 500 = 10000 decoy uploads per day.

> From our assumption that half of the infected persons use the app it follows that about half of the Dutch population has the app, which is about 8M app users.

Author: I rephrased, should be clearer now.

> This means that each app installation needs to generate 10000 / 8M = 0,00125 average decoy TEK upload sequence per day, or 0,0375 per 30 days. Let us round this to 4% chance per 30 days.

Author: I rephrased to make it clearer

The decoy traffic is then generated by the app as follows:

1. Each 30 days, determine whether a decoy traffic sequence is scheduled with a probability of X. X is a configuration parameter that is part of the server’s /appconfig response. X is a decimal between 0 and 1. The default value of X when the app has not successfully retrieved /appconfig yet, is 0.04 (the aforementioned 4%).
So take a number R = random(0..1) and only if R < X, continue with the next step.
Otherwise, stop this procedure and wait for the next round (in 30 days).

2. Pick a random day in the next 30 days to schedule the decoy upload sequence.
Note: we do not take into account Sundays and holidays that may have lower genuine upload traffic. We simply distribute randomly over 30 days.

3. Pick a random time between 7AM and 7PM to schedule the decoy sequence start.

4. Schedule a decoy TEK upload sequence for this random day and time.

Each decoy TEK upload sequence must behave as follows:

1. The decoy TEK upload sequence mimics the decoy traffic sequence as described in the previous paragraph, including the 14th TEK upload the following day..

> 2. The app maintains a counter DECOYCOUNTER of decoy traffic sent during the day by the scheduled decoy TEK upload sequence. This counter is set to 0 at the start of each decoy TEK upload sequence. Each time a decoy message is sent, the counter is increased by 1.

Author: Any suggestions?

> 2. The app maintains a counter DECOYCOUNTER of decoy traffic sent during the day by the scheduled decoy TEK upload sequence. This counter is set to 0 at the start of each decoy TEK upload sequence. Each time a decoy message is sent, the counter is increased by 1.

Reviewer: Perhaps the following, if I understood it correctly?

```suggestion
2. The app maintains a counter DECOYCOUNTER of decoy traffic sent during the day as scheduled by the decoy TEK upload sequence. This counter is set to 0 at the start of each decoy TEK upload sequence. Each time a decoy message is sent, the counter is increased by 1.
```

> 2. The app maintains a counter DECOYCOUNTER of decoy traffic sent during the day by the scheduled decoy TEK upload sequence. This counter is set to 0 at the start of each decoy TEK upload sequence. Each time a decoy message is sent, the counter is increased by 1.

Author: I rephrased to make it clearer.

> 2. The app maintains a counter DECOYCOUNTER of decoy traffic sent during the day by the scheduled decoy TEK upload sequence. This counter is set to 0 at the start of each decoy TEK upload sequence. Each time a decoy message is sent, the counter is increased by 1.

Reviewer: Even better 👍

Traffic analysis mitigation with decoy traffic
==============================================

# Introduction

The COVID-19 notification app allows a user who has been tested positive to upload TEKs (Temporary Exchange Keys) to the app’s back end servers. Anybody who can monitor the network traffic of the user’s device (smartphone) could potentially derive from the upload traffic that the user has a COVID-19 infection. This is a major privacy concern. This document describes how to mitigate network traffic analysis by systematically sending ‘decoy’ traffic that is indistinguishable from real TEK uploads.

Persons or entities that can listen in on network traffic include:

> * If user is on a public Wifi hotspot, anybody on the same public Wifi hotspot can monitor network traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If user is on a public Wi-Fi hotspot, anybody on the same public Wi-Fi hotspot can monitor network traffic.
```

* If user uses a corporate VPN, the corporate employer can continuously monitor the VPN network traffic to detect possible infections among employees.

> * If user is on a home Wifi network, any housemates can monitor the network traffic.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to say "any Wi-Fi network".

Author: Agreed. I rephrased.

* 2 calls on a day with interval < 5 min: very likely upload (/register and /postkeys have been invoked, or /register has been retried, which is unlikely)

* 2 calls on a day with interval > 5 min: very likely upload (/register and /postkeys have been invoked, and for some reason the user opened upload screen twice or more that day.)

* more than 2 calls in a day: very likely upload (/register and/or /postkeys has been retried. /postkeys might have failed, but unlikely.)

## Combination of TEK upload and phone call

Another datum that may be observed is that during a genuine TEK upload (/register and /postkeys calls) is having a phone call with the health care worker. If this is a VoIP call, this will be visible on the WiFi network. If this is a cell phone call, its call metadata could be analysed by e.g. corporate device management software, or by a nearby observer.

Decoy traffic as described below will make this analysis less valuable.

# Decoy traffic design

We take two measures to introduce decoy traffic:

1. Generate decoy traffic when user opens upload screen, to make genuine and simulated TEK uploads indistinguishable

> 2. Generate simulated TEK uploads on random days.

Reviewer 2: Two questions:
1. Will this be a background activity or does it require the user to open the key upload screen?
2. If this only happens when the user opens the key upload screen, when will the user open this screen?

Author: This will be a scheduled background activity. So user does not need to open the screen.
